[Nouns] certainty; necessity [more]; certitude, surety, assurance; dead certainty, moral certainty; infallibleness; infallibility, reliability; indubitableness, inevitableness, unquestionableness.
gospel, scripture, church, pope, court of final appeal; res judicata, ultimatum positiveness; dogmatism, dogmatist, dogmatizer; doctrinaire, bigot, opinionist, Sir Oracle; ipse dixit.
fact; positive fact, matter of fact; fait accompli.
[Verbs] be certain; stand to reason.
render certain; insure, ensure, assure; clinch, make sure; determine, decide, set at rest, "make assurance double sure" [Macbeth]; know (believe) [more].
dogmatize, lay down the law.
[Adjectives] certain, sure, assured; solid, well-founded.
unqualified, absolute, positive, determinate, definite, clear, unequivocal, categorical, unmistakable, decisive, decided, ascertained.
inevitable, unavoidable, avoidless; ineluctable.
unerring, infallible; unchangeable [more]; to be depended on, trustworthy, reliable, bound.
unimpeachable, undeniable, unquestionable; indisputable, incontestable, incontrovertible, indubitable; irrefutable (proven) [more]; conclusive, without power of appeal.
indubious; without doubt, beyond a doubt, without a shade or shadow of doubt, without question, beyond question; past dispute; clear as day; beyond all question, beyond all dispute; undoubted, uncontested, unquestioned, undisputed; questionless, doubtless.
authoritative, authentic, official.
sure as fate, sure as death and taxes, sure as a gun.
evident, self-evident, axiomatic; clear, clear as day, clear as the sun at noonday.
[Adverbs] certainly; for certain, certes, sure, no doubt, doubtless, and no mistake, flagrante delicto, sure enough, to be sure, of course, as a matter of course , a coup sur, to a certainty; in truth (truly) [more]; at any rate, at all events; without fail; coute que coute, coute qu'il coute; whatever may happen, if the worst come to the worst; come what may, happen what may, come what will; sink or swim; rain or shine.
