[Nouns] dejection; dejectedness; depression, prosternation; lowness of spirits, depression of spirits; weight on the spirits, oppression on the spirits, damp on the spirits; low spirits, bad spirits, drooping spirits, depressed spirits; heart sinking; heaviness of heart, failure of heart.
heaviness; infestivity, gloom; weariness [more]; taedium vitae, disgust of life; mal du pays (regret) [more]; anhedonia.
melancholy; sadness; il penseroso, melancholia, dismals, blues, lachrymals, mumps, dumps, blue devils, doldrums; vapors, megrims, spleen, horrors, hypochondriasis, pessimism; la maladie sans maladie; despondency, slough of Despond; disconsolateness; hope deferred, blank despondency; voiceless woe.
prostration of soul; broken heart; despair [more]; cave of despair, cave of Trophonius
demureness; gravity, solemnity; long face, grave face.
hypochondriac, seek sorrow, self-tormentor, heautontimorumenos, malade imaginaire, medecin tant pis; croaker, pessimist; mope, mopus.
[Cause of dejection] affliction [more]; sorry sight; memento mori; damper, wet blanket, Job's comforter.
[Verbs] be dejected; grieve; mourn (lament) [more]; take on, give way, lose heart, despond, droop, sink.
lower, look downcast, frown, pout; hang down the head; pull a long face, make a long face; laugh on the wrong side of the mouth; grin a ghastly smile; look blue, look like a drowned man; lay to heart, take to heart.
mope, brood over; fret; sulk; pine, pine away; yearn; repine (regret) [more]; despair [more].
refrain from laughter, keep one's countenance; be grave, look grave adj.; repress a smile.
depress; discourage, dishearten; dispirit; damp, dull, deject, lower, sink, dash, knock down, unman, prostrate, break one's heart; frown upon; cast a gloom, cast a shade on; sadden; damp one's hopes, dash one's hopes, wither one's hopes; weigh on the mind, lie heavy on the mind, prey on the mind, weigh on the spirits, lie heavy on the spirits, prey on the spirits; damp the spirits, depress the spirits, dampen the spirits.
[Adjectives] cheerless, joyless, spiritless; uncheerful, uncheery; unlively; unhappy [more]; melancholy, dismal, somber, dark, gloomy, triste, cluded, murky, lowering, frowning, lugubrious, funereal, mournful, lamentable, dreadful.
dreary, flat; dull, dull as a beetle, dull as ditchwater; depressing v.
"melancholy as a gib cat"; oppressed with melancholy, a prey to melancholy; downcast, downhearted; down in the mouth, down in one;s luck; heavy-hearted; in the dumps, in the suds, in the sulks, in the doldrums; in doleful dumps, in bad humor; sullen; mumpish, dumpish, mopish, moping; moody, glum; sulky (discontented) [more]; out of sorts, out of humor, out of heart, out of spirits; ill at ease, low spirited, in low spirits, a cup too low; weary [more]; discouraged, disheartened; desponding; chapfallen, chopfallen, jaw fallen, crest fallen.
sad, pensive, penseroso, tristful; dolesome, doleful; woebegone; lachrymose, in tears, melancholic, hypped, hypochondriacal, bilious, jaundiced, atrabilious, saturnine, splenetic; lackadaisical.
serious, sedate, staid, stayed; grave as a judge, grave as an undertaker, grave as a mustard pot; sober, solemn, demure; grim; grim- faced, grim-visaged; rueful, wan, long-faced.
disconsolate; unconsolable, inconsolable; forlorn, comfortless, desolate, desole, sick at heart; soul sick, heart sick; au desespoir; in despair [more]; lost.
overcome; broken down, borne down, bowed down; heartstricken (mental suffering) [more]; cut up, dashed, sunk; unnerved, unmanned; down fallen, downtrodden; broken-hearted; careworn.
[Adverbs] with a long face, with tears in one's eyes; sadly
