[Nouns] disease; illness, sickness; ailing, "all the ills that flesh is heir to" [Hamlet]; morbidity, morbosity; infirmity, ailment, indisposition; complaint, disorder, malady; distemper, distemperature.
visitation, attack, seizure, stroke, fit.
delicacy, loss of health, invalidation, cachexy; cachexia, atrophy, marasmus; indigestion, dyspepsia; decay (deterioration) [more]; decline, consumption, palsy, paralysis, prostration.
taint, pollution, infection, sepsis, septicity, infestation; epidemic, pandemic, endemic, epizootic; murrain, plague, pestilence, virus, pox.
sore, ulcer, abscess, fester, boil; pimple (swelling) [more]; carbuncle, gathering, imposthume, peccant humor, issue; rot, canker, cold sore, fever sore; cancer, carcinoma, leukemia, neoplastic disease, malignancy, tumor; caries, mortification, corruption, gangrene, sphacelus, sphacelation, leprosy, eruption, rash, breaking out.
fever, calenture; inflammation.
ague, angina pectoris, appendicitis; Asiatic cholera, spasmodic cholera; biliary calculus, kidney stone, black death, bubonic plague, pneumonic plague; blennorrhagia, blennorrhoea; blood poisoning, bloodstroke, bloody flux, brash; breakbone fever, dengue fever, malarial fever, Q-fever; heart attack, cardiac arrest, cardiomyopathy; hardening of the arteries, arteriosclerosis, atherosclerosis; bronchocele, canker rash, cardialgia, carditis, endocarditis; cholera, asphyxia; chlorosis, chorea, cynanche, dartre; enanthem, enanthema; erysipelas; exanthem, exanthema; gallstone, goiter, gonorrhea, green sickness; grip, grippe, influenza, flu; hay fever, heartburn, heaves, rupture, hernia, hemorrhoids, piles, herpes, itch, king's evil, lockjaw; measles, mumps, polio; necrosis, pertussis, phthisis, pneumonia, psora, pyaemia, pyrosis, quinsy, rachitis, ringworm, rubeola, St. Vitus's dance, scabies, scarlatina, scarlet fever, scrofula, seasickness, struma, syntexis, tetanus, tetter, tonsilitis, tracheocele, trachoma, trismus, varicella, varicosis, variola, water qualm, whooping cough; yellow fever, yellow jack.
fatal disease (hopeless) [more]; dangerous illness, galloping consumption, churchyard cough; general breaking up, break up of the system.
[Disease of mind] idiocy [more]; insanity [more].
martyr to disease; cripple; "the halt the lame and the blind"; valetudinary, valetudinarian; invalid, patient, case; sickroom, sick-chamber.
[Science of disease] pathology, etiology, nosology.
[Veterinary] anthrax, bighead; blackleg, blackquarter; cattle plague, glanders, mange, scrapie, milk sickness; heartworm, feline leukemia, roundworms; quarter-evil, quarter-ill; rinderpest.
[Verbs] be ill; ail, suffer, labor under, be affected with, complain of, have; droop, flag, languish, halt; sicken, peak, pine; gasp.
keep one's bed; feign sickness (falsehood) [more].
lay by, lay up; take a disease, catch a disease, catch an infection; break out.
[Adjectives] diseased; ailing; ill, ill of; taken ill, seized with; indisposed, unwell, sick, squeamish, poorly, seedy; affected with illness, afflicted with illness; laid up, confined, bedridden, invalided, in hospital, on the sick list; out of health, out of sorts; under the weather [U.S.]; valetudinary.
unsound, unhealthy; sickly, morbose, healthless, infirm, chlorotic, unbraced. drooping, flagging, lame, crippled, halting.
morbid, tainted, vitiated, peccant, contaminated, poisoned, tabid, mangy, leprous, cankered; rotten, rotten to the core, rotten at the core; withered, palsied, paralytic; dyspeptic; luetic, pneumonic, pulmonic, phthisic, rachitic; syntectic, syntectical; tabetic, varicose.
touched in the wind, broken-winded, spavined, gasping; hors de combat (useless) [more].
weakly, weakened (weak) [more]; decrepit; decayed (deteriorated) [more]; incurable (hopeless) [more]; in declining health; cranky; in a bad way, in danger, prostrate; moribund (death) [more].
morbific [more]; epidemic, endemic; zymotic.
