[Nouns] drunkenness; intemperance; drinking v.; inebriety, inebriation; ebriety, ebriosity; insobriety; intoxication; temulency, bibacity, winebibbing; comtation, potation; deep potations, bacchanals, bacchanalia, libations; bender [U.S.].
oinomania, dipsomania; delirium tremens; alcohol, alcoholism; mania a potu.
drink; alcoholic drinks; blue ruin, grog, port wine; punch, punch bowl; cup, rosy wine, flowing bowl; drop, drop too much; dram; beer (beverage) [more]; aguardiente; apple brandy, applejack; brandy, brandy smash [U.S.]; chain lightning, champagne, cocktail; gin, ginsling; martini; highball [U.S.], peg, rum, rye, schnapps [U.S.], sherry, sling [U.S.], uisquebaugh, usquebaugh, whisky, xeres.
drunkard, sot, toper, tippler, bibber, winebibber; hard drinker, gin drinker, dram drinker; soaker, sponge, tun; love pot, toss pot; thirsty soul, reveler, carouser, Bacchanal, Bacchanalian; Bacchal, Bacchante; devotee to Bacchus; bum [U.S.], guzzler, tavern haunter.
[Verbs] get drunk, be drunk; see double; take a drop too much, take a glass too much; drink; tipple, tope, booze, bouse, guzzle, swill, soak, sot, bum [U.S.], besot, have a jag on, lush, bib, swig, carouse; sacrifice at the shrine of Bacchus; take to drinking; drink hard, drink deep, drink like a fish; have one's swill, drain the cup, splice the main brace, take a hair of the dog that bit you.
liquor, liquor up; wet one's whistle, take a whet; crack a bottle, pass the bottle; toss off (drink up) [more]; go to the alehouse, go to the public house.
make one drunk; inebriate, fuddle, befuddle, fuzzle, get into one's head.
[Adjectives] drunk, tipsy; intoxicated; inebrious, inebriate, inebriated; in one's cups; in a state of intoxicationn.; temulent, temulentive; fuddled, mellow, cut, boozy, fou, fresh, merry, elevated; flustered, disguised, groggy, beery; top-heavy; potvaliant, glorious; potulent; squiffy; overcome, overtaken; whittled, screwed, tight, primed, corned, raddled, sewed up, lushy, nappy, muddled, muzzy, obfuscated, maudlin; crapulous, dead drunk.
flush, flushed.
inter pocula; in liquor, the worse for liquor; having had a drop too much, half seas over, three sheets in the wind, three sheets to the wind; under the table.
drunk as a lord, drunk as a piper, drunk as a fiddler, drunk as Chloe, drunk as an owl, drunk as David's sow, drunk as a wheelbarrow.
drunken, bibacious, sottish; given to drink, addicted to drink, addicted to the bottle; toping.
