[Nouns] heterodoxy; error [more]; false doctrine, heresy, schism; schismaticism, schismaticalness; recusancy, backsliding, apostasy; atheism (irreligion) [more].
bigotry (obstinacy) [more]; fanaticism, iconoclasm; hyperorthodoxy, precisianism, bibliolatry, sabbatarianism, puritanism; anthropomorphism; idolatry [more]; superstition (credulity) [more]; dissent [more].
sectarism, sectarianism; noncomformity; secularism; syncretism, religious sects.
protestantism, Arianism, Adventism, Jansenism, Stundism, Erastianism, Calvinism, quakerism, methodism, anabaptism, Puseyism, tractarianism, ritualism, Origenism, Sabellianism, Socinianism, Deism, Theism, materialism, positivism, latitudinarianism
High Church, Low Church, Broad Church, Free Church; ultramontanism; papism, papistry; monkery; papacy; Angelicanism, Catholicism, Romanism; popery, Scarlet Lady, Church of Rome, Greek Church.
paganism, heathenism, ethicism; mythology; polytheism, ditheism, tritheism; dualism; heathendom.
Judaism, Gentilism, Islamism, Mohammedanism, Babism, Sufiism, Neoplatonism, Turcism, Brahimism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Sabianism, Gnosticism, Hylotheism, Mormonism; Christian Science.
heretic, antichrist; pagan, heathen; painim, paynim; giaour; gentile; pantheist, polytheist; idolator.
bigot (obstinacy) [more]; fanatic, abdal, iconoclast.
latitudinarian, Deist, Theist, Unitarian; positivist, materialist; Homolousian, Homoousian, limitarian, theosophist, ubiquitarian; skeptic [more].
schismatic; sectary, sectarian, sectarist; seceder, separatist, recusant, dissenter; nonconformist, nonjuror; Huguenot, Protestant; orthodox dissenter, Congregationalist, Independent; Episcopalian, Presbyterian; Lutheran, Calvinist, Methodist, Wesleyan; Ana, Baptist; Mormon, Latter-day Saint, Irvingite, Sandemanian, Glassite, Erastian; Sublapsarian, Supralapsarian; Gentoo, Antinomian, Swedenborgian; Adventist, Bible Christian, Bryanite, Brownian, Christian Scientist, Dunker, Ebionite, Eusebian; Faith Curer, Curist; Familist, Jovinianist, Libadist, Quaker, Restitutionist, Shaker, Stundist, Tunker
Catholic, Roman, Catholic, Romanist, ultramontane; Anglican, Oxford School; tractarian, Puseyite, ritualist; Puritan.
Jew, Hebrew, Rabbinist, Rabbist; Babist, Motazilite, Shiah, Sunni, Wahabi, Mohammedian, Mussulman, Moslem, Muslim, Osmanli; Brahmin, Brahman; Parsee, Sufi, Buddhist; Magi, Gymnosophist, fire worshiper, Sabian, Gnostic, Sadducee, Rosicrucian
[Adjectives] heterodox, heretical; unorthodox, unscriptural, uncanonical; antiscriptural, apocryphal; unchristian, antichristian; schismatic, recusant, iconoclastic; sectarian; dissenting, dissident; secular, (lay) [more].
pagan; heathen, heathenish; ethnic, ethnical; gentile, paynim; pantheistic, polytheistic.
Judaical, Muslim, Brahminical, Buddhist; Romish, Protestant, Catholic, Roman Catholic.
bigoted (prejudiced) [more], (obstinate) [more]; superstitious (credulous) [more]; fanatical; idolatrous [more]; visionary (imagainative) [more].
