[Nouns] disordered reason, disordered intellect; diseased mind, unsound mind, abnormal mind; derangement, unsoundness.
insanity, lunacy; madness; mania, rabies, furor, mental alienation, aberration; paranoia; dementation, dementia, demency; phrenitis, phrensy, frenzy, raving, incoherence, wandering, delirium, calenture of the brain; delusion, hallucination; lycanthropy; brainstorm.
vertigo, dizziness, swimming; sunstroke, coup de soleil, siriasis.
fanaticism, infatuation, craze; oddity, eccentricity, twist, monomania; kleptodipsomania; hypochondriassis (low spirits) [more]; melancholia, hysteria; amentia.
screw loose, tile loose, slate loose; bee in one's bonnet, rats in the upper story.
dotage (imbecility) [more].
[Verbs] be insane
become insane; lose one's senses, lose one's reason, lose one's faculties, lose one's wits; go mad, run mad; rave, dote, ramble, wander; drivel (be imbecile) [more]; have a screw loose, have a devil; avoir le diable au corps; lose one's head (be uncertain) [more].
render mad, drive mad; madden, dementate, addle the wits, derange the head, infatuate, befool; turn the brain, turn one's head.
[Adjectives] insane, mad, lunatic; crazy, crazed, aliene, non compos mentis; not right, cracked, touched; bereft of reason; all possessed, unhinged, unsettled in one's mind; insensate, reasonless, beside oneself, demented, daft; phrenzied, frenzied, frenetic; possessed, possessed with a devil; deranged, maddened, moonstruck; shatterpated; mad-brained, scatterbrained, shatterbrained, crackbrained; off one's head.
maniacal; delirious, lightheaded, incoherent, rambling, doting, wandering; frantic, raving, stark staring mad.
corybantic, dithyrambic; rabid, giddy, vertiginous, wild; haggard, mazed; flighty; distracted, distraught; bewildered (uncertain) [more].
mad as a March hare, mad as a hatter; of unsound mind; touched in one's head, wrong in one's head, not right in one's head, not in one's right mind, not right in one's wits, not right in one's upper story; out of one's mind, far gone, out of one's senses, out of one's wits; not in one's right mind.
fanatical, infatuated, odd, eccentric; hypped, hyppish.
imbecile, silly, [more].
[Adverbs] like one possessed.
