[Nouns] insolence; haughtiness; arrogance, airs; overbearance; domineering; tyranny [more].
impertinence; sauciness; flippancy, dicacity, petulance, procacity, bluster; swagger, swaggering; bounce; terrorism.
assumption, presumption; beggar on horseback; usurpation.
impudence, assurance, audacity, hardihood, front, face, brass; shamelessness; effrontery, hardened front, face of brass.
assumption of infallibility.
saucebox (blusterer) [more].
[Verbs] be insolent; bluster, vapor, swagger, swell, give oneself airs, snap one's fingers, kick up a dust; swear (affirm) [more]; rap out oaths; roister. arrogate; assume, presume; make bold, make free; take a liberty, give an inch and take an ell.
domineer, bully, dictate, hector; lord it over; traiter de haut en bas, regarder de haut en bas; exact; snub, huff, beard, fly in the face of; put to the blush; bear down, beat down; browbeat, intimidate; trample down, tread down, trample under foot; dragoon, ride roughshod over.
out face, outlook, outstare, outbrazen, outbrave; stare out of countenance; brazen out; lay down the law; teach one's grandmother to suck eggs; assume a lofty bearing; talk big, look big; put on big looks, act the grand seigneur; mount the high horse, ride the high horse; toss the head, carry, with a high hand.
tempt Providence, want snuffing.
[Adjectives] insolent, haughty, arrogant, imperious, magisterial, dictatorial, arbitrary; high-handed, high and mighty; contumelious, supercilious, overbearing, intolerant, domineering, overweening, high-flown.
flippant, pert, fresh [U.S.], cavalier, saucy, forward, impertinent, malapert.
precocious, assumiing, would-be, bumptious.
bluff; brazen, shameless, aweless, unblushlng, unabashed; boldfaced, barefaced, brazen-faced; dead to shame, lost to shame.
impudent, audacious, presumptuous, free and easy, devil-may-care, rollicking; jaunty, janty; roistering, blustering, hectoring, swaggering, vaporing; thrasonic, fire eating, "full of sound and fury " [Macbeth].
[Adverbs] with a high hand; ex cathedra.
