[Nouns] painfulness; trouble, care (pain) [more]; trial; affliction, infliction; blow, stroke, burden, load, curse; bitter pill, bitter draught; waters of bitterness.
annoyance, grievance, nuisance, vexation, mortification, sickener; bore, bother, pother, hot water, "sea of troubles" [Hamlet], hornet's nest, plague, pest.
cancer, ulcer, sting, thorn; canker (bane) [more]; scorpion (evil doer) [more]; dagger (arms) [more]; scourge (instrument of punishment) [more]; carking care, canker worm of care.
mishap, misfortune (adversity) [more]; desagrement, esclandre, rub.
source of irritation, source of annoyance; wound, sore subject, skeleton in the closet; thorn in the flesh, thorn in one's side; where the shoe pinches, gall and wormwood.
sorry sight, heavy news, provocation; affront [more]; "head and front of one's offending" [Othello].
infestation, molestation; malignity (malevolence) [more].
[Verbs] cause pain, occasion pain, give pain, bring pain, induce pain, produce pain, create pain, inflict pain [more]; pain, hurt, wound.
pinch, prick, gripe (physical pain) [more]; pierce, lancinate, cut.
hurt the feelings, wound the feelings, grate upon the feelings, jar upon the feelings; wring the heart, pierce the heart, lacerate the heart, break the heart, rend the heart; make the heart bleed; tear the heart strings, rend the heart strings; draw tears from the eyes.
sadden; make unhappy [more]; plunge into sorrow, grieve, fash, afflict, distress; cut up, cut to the heart.
displease, annoy, incommode, discompose, trouble, disquiet; faze, feaze, feeze (U.S.); disturb, cross, perplex, molest, tease, tire, irk, vex, mortify, wherret, worry, plague, bother, pester, bore, pother, harass, harry, badger, heckle, bait, beset, infest, persecute, importune.
wring, harrow, torment, torture; bullyrag; put to the rack, put to the question; break on the wheel, rack, scarify; cruciate, crucify; convulse, agonize; barb the dart; plant a dagger in the breast, plant a thorn in one's side.
irritate, provoke, sting, nettle, try the patience, pique, fret, rile, tweak the nose, chafe, gall; sting to the quick, wound to the quick, cut to the quick; aggrieve, affront, enchafe, enrage, ruffle, sour the temper; give offense (resentment) [more].
maltreat, bite, snap at, assail; smite (punish) [more].
sicken, disgust, revolt, nauseate, disenchant, repel, offend, shock, stink in the nostrils; go against the stomach, turn the stomach; make one sick, set the teeth on edge, go against the grain, grate on the ear; stick in one's throat, stick in one's gizzard; rankle, gnaw, corrode, horrify, appal, appall, freeze the blood; make the flesh creep, make the hair stand on end; make the blood curdle, make the blood run cold; make one shudder.
haunt the memory; weigh on the heart, prey on the heart, weigh on the mind, prey on the mind, weigh on the spirits, prey on the spirits; bring one's gray hairs with sorrow to the grave; add a nail to one's coffin.
[Adjectives] causing pain, hurting; hurtful (bad) [more]; painful; dolorific, dolorous; unpleasant; unpleasing, displeasing; disagreeable, unpalatable, bitter, distasteful; uninviting; unwelcome; undesirable, undesired; obnoxious; unacceptable, unpopular, thankless.
unsatisfactory, untoward, unlucky, uncomfortable.
distressing; afflicting, afflictive; joyless, cheerless, comfortless; dismal, disheartening; depressing, depressive; dreary, melancholy, grievous, piteous; woeful, rueful, mournful, deplorable, pitiable, lamentable; sad, affecting, touching, pathetic.
irritating, provoking, stinging, annoying, aggravating, mortifying, galling; unaccommodating, invidious, vexatious; troublesome, tiresome, irksome, wearisome; plaguing, plaguy; awkward.
importunate; teasing, pestering, bothering, harassing, worrying, tormenting, carking.
intolerable, insufferable, insupportable; unbearable, unendurable; past bearing; not to be borne, not to be endured; more than flesh and blood can bear; enough to drive one mad, enough to provoke a saint, enough to make a parson swear.
shocking, terrific, grim, appalling, crushing; dreadful, fearful, frightful; thrilling, tremendous, dire; heart-breaking, heart-rending, heart-wounding, heart-corroding, heart-sickening; harrowing, rending.
odious, hateful, execrable, repulsive, repellent, abhorrent; horrid, horrible, horrific, horrifying; offensive.
nauseous, nauseating; disgusting, sickening, revolting; nasty; loathsome, loathful; fulsome; vile (bad) [more]; hideous [more].
sharp, acute, sore, severe, grave, hard, harsh, cruel, biting, caustic; cutting, corroding, consuming, racking, excruciating, searching, grinding, grating, agonizing; envenomed; catheretic, pyrotic.
ruinous, disastrous, calamitous, tragical; desolating, withering; burdensome, onerous, oppressive; cumbrous, cumbersome.
[Adverbs] painfully; with pain [more]; deuced.
