[Nouns] production, creation, construction, formation, fabrication, manufacture; building, architecture, erection, edification; coinage; diaster; organization; nisus formativus; putting together; establishment; workmanship, performance; achievement (completion) [more].
flowering, fructification; inflorescence.
bringing forth; parturition, birth, birth-throe, childbirth, delivery, confinement, accouchement, travail, labor, midwifery, obstetrics; geniture; gestation (maturation) [more]; assimilation; evolution, development, growth; entelechy; fertilization, gemination, germination, heterogamy, genesis, generation, epigenesis, procreation, progeneration, propagation; fecundation, impregnation; albumen [more].
spontaneous generation; archegenesis, archebiosis; biogenesis, abiogenesis, digenesis, dysmerogenesis, eumerogenesis, heterogenesis, oogenesis, merogenesis, metogenesis, monogenesis, parthenogenesis, homogenesis, xenogenesis; authorship, publication; works, oeuvre.
biogeny, dissogeny, xenogeny; tocogony, vacuolization.
edifice, building, structure, fabric, erection, pile, tower, flower, fruit.
[Verbs] produce, perform, operate, do, make, gar, form, construct, fabricate, frame, contrive, manufacture; weave, forge, coin, carve, chisel; build, raise, edify, rear, erect, put together, set up, run up; establish, constitute, compose, organize, institute; achieve, accomplish (complete) [more].
flower, bear fruit, fructify, teem, ean, yean, farrow, drop, pup, kitten, kindle; bear, lay, whelp, bring forth, give birth to, lie in, be brought to bed of, evolve, pullulate, usher into the world.
make productive [more]; create; beget, get, generate, fecundate, impregnate; procreate, progenerate, propagate; engender; bring into being, call into being, bring into existence; breed, hatch, develop, bring up.
induce, superinduce; suscitate; cause [more]; acquire [more].
[Adjectives] produced, producing; productive of; prolific [more]; creative; formative, genetic, genial, genital; pregnant; enceinte, big with, fraught with; in the family way, teeming, parturient, in the straw, brought to bed of; puerperal, puerperous.
digenetic, heterogenetic, oogenetic, xenogenetic; ectogenous, gamic, haematobious, sporogenous, sporophorous.
architectonic.
