[Nouns] nonconformity [more]; unconformity, disconformity; unconventionality, informality, abnormity, abnormality, anomaly; anomalousness; exception, peculiarity; infraction of law, breach, of law, violation of law, violation of custom, violation of usage, infringement of law, infringement of custom, infringement of usage; teratism, eccentricity, bizarrerie, oddity, je ne sais quoi, monster, monstrosity, rarity; freak, freak of Nature, weirdo, mutant; rouser, snorter [U.S.].
individuality, idiosyncrasy, originality, mannerism.
aberration; irregularity; variety; singularity; exemption; salvo (qualification) [more].
nonconformist; nondescript, character, original, nonsuch, monster, prodigy, wonder, miracle, curiosity, flying fish, black sheep, black swan, lusus naturae, rara avis, queer fish; mongrel, random breed; half-caste, half-blood, half-breed; metis, crossbreed, hybrid, mule, hinny, mulatto; tertium quid, hermaphrodite.
phoenix, chimera, hydra, sphinx, minotaur; griffin, griffon; centaur; saggittary; kraken, cockatrice, wyvern, roc, dragon, sea serpent; mermaid; unicorn; Cyclops, "men whose heads do grow beneath their shoulders" [Othello]; teratology.
fish out of water; neither one thing nor another, neither fish nor fowl, neither fish flesh nor fowl nor good red herring; one in a million, one in a way, one in a thousand; outcast, outlaw; off the beaten track; oasis.
[Verbs] be uncomformable; abnormalize; leave the beaten track, leave the beaten path; infringe a law, infringe a habit, infringe a usage, infringe a custom, break a law, break a habit, break a usage, break a custom, violate a law, violate a habit, violate a usage, violate a custom; drive a coach and six through; stretch a point; have no business there; baffle all description, beggar all description.
[Adjectives] uncomformable, exceptional; abnormal, abnormous; anomalous, anomalistic; out of order, out of place, out of keeping, out of tune, out of one's element; irregular, arbitrary; teratogenic; lawless, informal, aberrant, stray, wandering, wanton; peculiar, exclusive, unnatural, eccentric, egregious; out of the beaten track, off the beaten track, out of the common, out of the common run; beyond the pale of, out of the pale of; misplaced; funny.
unusual, unaccustomed, uncustomary, unwonted, uncommon; rare, singular, unique, curious, odd, extraordinary; weird, strange, monstrous; wonderful [more]; unexpected, unaccountable; outre, out of the way, remarkable, noteworthy; queer, quaint, nondescript, none such, sui generis; original, unconventional, unfashionable; undescribed, unprecedented, unparalleled, unexampled, unheard of, unfamiliar; fantastic, newfangled, grotesque, bizarre; outlandish, exotic, tombe des nues, preternatural; denaturalized.
heterogeneous, heteroclite, amorphous, mongrel, amphibious, epicene, half blood, hybrid; androgynous, androgynal; unsymmetric [more]; adelomorphous, bisexual, hermaphrodite, monoclinous.
qualified [more].
[Adverbs] unconformably; except, unless, save, barring, beside, without, save and except, let alone.
however, yet, but.
